Programming Background
================
Maxwell Marion-Spencer
2022-06-09

## My Programming Experience and Thoughts on R

**What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you’ve used?**

*I have some background in R through my work in behavioral science
research, and through taking free workshops offered by my employer. I
may be biased since it is the first language I learned, but I find it to
be pretty straight-forward and the logic of it is fairly easy to follow.
I have also taken a basic Python coding course and I am currently
enrolled in ST 590 which focuses on analysis of big data with Python.
Python seems much more generally flexible and I am coming around to it,
but R certainly feels the most comfortable to me at this point!*

**What functionality do you like about R?**

*The functionality of R that I particularly like, though it can be
overwhelming at times, is the sheer number of packages available. It
fits with the perception that there are a million ways to tackle
problems in R, for good and bad.*

**What parts do you miss about your other language?**

*I slightly prefer the vertical layout of operating within a Jupiter Lab
notebook while coding with Python, but I suppose that I could adjust the
RStudio environment to make it more vertical.*

**Do you consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior
to the course, describe your experience when first learning it.)**

*Again, I really like R but it was very overwhelming to be stuck on a
problem and have to look for help, only to see that the solution was in
Tidyverse syntax which I was even less familiar with. I spent a lot of
time wobbling back and forth between learning base R and Tidyverse,
which was probably detrimental to my learning process at first. Now I
feel more comfortable with programming syntax and understanding what the
misunderstanding is between me and the code when things go wrong.
Overall I would say that R is a fairly easy language to learn, as it can
be very forgiving, for example - you don’t have to worry so much about
spacing like in Python.*

## Example R Markdown Output

``` r
plot(iris)
```

![](../images/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)<!-- -->
